# COMP1730 Lession_1 

## calculating the repay 

> principle  = 3000

> time = if <!--Years-->

> rate = 6.5/100 <!--%-->

> re_payment = principe * rate * (1+ rate) / ((1+rate) -1)

> print(xxxx)

<!-- run the program and you should get approx 31985-->


```python
    import math
    import matplotlib.pyplot as mpl
    def monthly cost(principal, interest rate, years):
    monthly interest rate = interest rate/12
    # interest rate is given in % so need to divide by 100
    r = monthly interest rate/100
    n payments = years * 12
    return principal * ((r * math.pow(1 + r, n payments)) /
    (math.pow(1 + r, n payments) - 1))
    years = range(10,26)
    mc = [monthly cost(300000, 5.5, y) for y in years]
    mpl.plot(years, mc, ’g-’)
    mc = [monthly cost(300000, 6.5, y) for y in years]
    mpl.plot(years, mc, ’b-’)
    mc = [monthly cost(300000, 7.5, y) for y in years]
    mpl.plot(years, mc, ’r-’)
    mpl.show()
```
---

## functions 

> define calculate_repayment (principle, rate, time)

> xxxx (etc)

---

## plotting graphs

---

> plt.plot(x,y,color_code)

>\// matplotlib.pyplot.plot(*args, scalex=True, scaley=True, data=None, **kwargs)

<!-- plt is one of the math lib in the python-->

This will give a 2-D graph of giveb var

---

## About python

---

This course is not oreented with pyton stuff...

---

## Using python 3.0

* Python is a un-effi lan (comparing to **???????** ) 

* The efficiency of the program is depending on your flow

## Requirements:

* Small programs 

* Practical Limitations 

* Debug (THe basic gramgramming grammar **PLZ** )

* Hwo to organize your code with ease? 

---

## COMP 1730 Email (comp1730@anu.edu.anu)
## QUES: WHATT about the python lib, the comparison with C++?, Windowed interface vs C#? Python Package Index????? (More than 200+)? Standard Python Library? pypi (custom python lib) suchas plt lib????? 

---

	
Thank you for your question Binbin.

With a large enrolment course like ours there are so many classes on the timetable that it can be confusing. A further complication is that if you choose to view the whole semester rather than just a particular week you will see more than one entry for some classes because of changes in venue (e.g. Llewellyn Hall is not available at our lecture times on Monday and Wednesday in calendar week 18, so alternate venues are listed for these weeks as separate entries.)

The rule is that the letters, A,B,C etc signify a sequence of classes ALL of which you are encouraged to attend. The numbers 01,02,03 etc signify alternatives, where the number that you should/can attend is specified by the course convener.

In the case of MATH1005/MATH6005:

LECTURES: there are normally three lectures a week, LecA/01, LecB/01, LecC/01. (The exception is when there is no Monday lecture due to a public holiday.) The three lectures are all different so you are encouraged to attend them all.  In some courses (NOT ours) you might see for example "LecA/02"; this would mean that LecA is repeated and you can choose which one to attend.

WORKSHOPS: Notice that on the timetable these are all labelled WorA (currently WorA/01 -- WorA/35). So these are all alternatives. I have specified that you need to register for one and only one of these. There are no Workshops until teaching week 3, except possibly for some make-ups in week 2 for the Monday Canberra Day public holiday in week 3. 

DROP-INS: These are all labelled DroA, so they are alternatives. You will hear about these in a lecture in Week 1. Unlike workshops, there is no registration required and no restriction on how many drop-ins you choose to attend; you can attend anything from 0 to 4 in any one week. Drop-ins commence in week 2 or 3 (to be advised).

---